We are gonna build out some custom pages.
So for the authors,
we can do some pretty standard stuff.
Now that we've got these authors, I wanna
be able to use just the normal file based,
like we're gonna use the author slug and
we're gonna build a page.
So let's start there and because I didn't
add a slug for the books, let's also add.
A helper, called slugify,
which will let us turn the titles
of the books into URL slugs so
that we can make pages out of them.
So now that I've got this, I'm going to
start well, let's create the page first.
So I'm going to create a new page in here,
and
we're gonna call this (Author slug).js.
Now note,
we're using curly braces here, and
then a data type and
the field we want to use as the path.
This is a way to dynamically generate
content based on the data in your graphQL
layer.
So by creating this, what I'm able
to do is Gatsby now will say,
hi, I see a file for
this author type, do we have authors?
Do those authors have slug fields?
If so, create one page for
each author in this array.
It's a really powerful flows,
really, really nice.
And lets us get a whole bunch
of stuff done very short order
without having to dig into
further Gatsby node API's.
And then finally we're
going to use this slagify.
What did I import here?
That is not what I wanted I wanted
graphQL get slugify from slugify.
Okay so
first we're going to do a query and
when you generate pages from
a from a data type like this,
the way that Gatsby will do it
is it's going to run a query,
it'll build a query that is just for the
nodes, the ID and whatever field you used.
So it's going to generate this query for
the ID in the slug.
The ID and the slug will then
get passed in the page context,
which is to refresh your memory there,
the page context is here.
And anything that gets passed here
is available to the page as the page
context prop, and
also it'll get set as a graphQL variable.
So I have the ability here,
let's do AuthorPage.
And this is going to give us
a graphQL variable, which is the ID.
And I don't remember what the type
of the ID is so let's hover.
And it's an ID type so
I will say we need to get an ID.
And then I wanna get a single author.
So let's start the server here actually.
So that I can I can build this query
in Gatsby instead of guessing at what
things are.
I think it's gonna yell about my author
page that's created and not saved, but
that's okay.
Let's get into the graphical,
I'm going to copy paste my query here.
All right, and
then this is expecting a query variable
which I can grab from down here.
So we'll set an ID and our author
ID we'll have to find one of those.
So let's actually maybe start
by running this query so
that I can get, Here is an author ID.
So we'll get this stuff for n-k-jemisin.
So here will be our ID,
I'm going to set that value,
and that's going to be
the variable that's set by Gatsby.
And then inside of this,
I want to get an author and
I want their ID to equal.
ID, not equals why did it create that?
Okay, inside of that I can get their
name and their slug and their books and
see let's not filter on that,
that's not what I wanted.
So what I want, is I want their,
start with their name.
And then I want their books.
For each book, I want the ID,
I want the name, I want the series, and
I want the series order, because
we're going to on each author page,
I wanna display their name and
then a list of their books and
if they are in a series I want to say
like book one of the whatever series.
So this will be our query and
this is what expecting
type string okay let's
do a string there we go.
Okay, so it wants to string glad we
checked it because that would have failed
otherwise, right?
Again, a reason that I really liked this
flow of building the query in the browser,
instead of trying to just write them
by hand is you get to run them and
make sure the data comes
back the way you expect.
But here we go.
So if I get an author with an ID of
this string here generated by Gatsby,
then I'm able to pull up their name and
a list of their books.
So let's copy this move into here.
All right, and
now when we build out our page,
that page is going to
have access to this data.
So let's do export default AuthorPage and
that has the data and in our data we will
have let's start with the basics.
I guess we're gonna get the concert will
be the author, and that'll be data.author.
And then we'll have our books,
which will be author.books.
Okay and then we can return
just do a regular old div.
I'm going to do the author name.
And then before we try to do anything with
the books just yet, let's just dump it and
look at it.
Okay, so
this should put us in pretty good shape.
Let's get out here and
let's look at our 404 page.
What don't you like?
Gotta call it a function
if you're using a function.
All right, so here is our list and you can
see it generated a thing for each one.
So let's jump in here and
we've got a page,
that page includes the book information.
So how do we want to do linking?
Let's think about the way that
we want our books to be linked.
I like my URLs to be descriptive, so,
if books are related to each other,
I want them to tell me that right?
So for a book like Dark Matter,
it's not part of a series.
So I would want the URL to be like
slash book, slash dark matter.
But for one of these N.K.
Jemisin books that
are part of the series I would actually
want that to be included in the URL.
So I would want it to be slash books,
or slash book slash,
the Broken Earth Trilogy
slash The Stones Sky.
Like that's the way that I
would want that to work so
that I know in my head that I'm looking
at a book that is part of a series and
I can kind of group those just by looking
at URLs and understand what I'm reading.
So that means we need to generate
our URLs a little bit differently.
And I also want to make sure that
these show up in order like if, for
whatever reason these got entered as
book two went in first and then one and
three I don't want that
to show up on the site.
So I wanna sort them as well.
So I'm going to create a little
helper function here that we're
going to call sortAndExtendBooks and
that's gonna accept our books.
And inside of it,
we're going to return the books and
we're just gonna do some
some function stuff with it.
So let's do some chaining.
We'll start by sorting and
we'll get book a book b.
And we're gonna return
whether the a.series
order is less than the b.series order.
And I can't remember exactly
how this works like you,
you have to,
I always have to try this both ways and
then see what happens if you
do a minus b goes ascending.
And if you go b minus a,
it goes descending.
Because it's basically if it's a positive
value, it moves up in the list.
And if it's a negative value it
moves down in the list I think so
it's I don't know that the sort
is a little bit confusing, but
effectively this will give us what we
want it'll put it in series order.
Then, we're going to map across each book,
and I want to extend each book.
So I'm going to set up this function here,
and
inside of it, let's get the series first.
So if there is a series,
we wanna do some stuff.
I want to just create some
like display text for this.
So we'll say book.series and then we'll
say like it's book number,
book.seriesOrder.
So this would be like the Broken Earth
trilogy book one, book two, book three.
Okay, that's good and then if we don't
have that, I wanted to just be empty text.
So we'll just leave it blank
if you don't have a series.
So then, we can get a display name.
And that display name is going to
be the book name and the series.
So if it's empty,
it'll just be white space we don't care.
If it does have a series and
it'll be the name of the book, and
then in parentheses
the Broken Earth Trilogy book one.
Next, we're gonna set up the book slug and
the book slug is going to use slugify and
we just pass in the book.name.
I want it to be lowercase.
So this will, passing this option
in just means that instead of
being like capital T, the Broken Earth,
it'll be the broken earth.
And it converts into a kebab case,
which is kind of nice so
it's what you would expect in a URL.
Finally, we wanna actually
build out the path but
it's gonna be a different path based on
whether or not we have a series or not.
So let's start with saying if
the book.series is not null,
then I want to set the series slug,
which will be
the same general approach
slugify book series.
And we'll set lower to true.
And then down here we will
set the path to be book and
then we'll do series slug and book slug.
Okay, so that's what we'll get
if we have a book with a series.
Now if we don't have a series,
We will instead set the path
to be just regular old book and
then book slug.
All right, happy with that and
then let's just return our modified books.
So we're gonna put back all
the regular book things, but
then we'll add in the display name and
the path as additional fields on our book.
So that means that down here, we just want
to change this out sort and extend books.
Okay, so if we save this,
go figure out what I type owed
I pluralized function somehow.
There we go.
All right,
so now we can see that it's been extended
each one of these now has a display
name that is doing what we want.
And it has a path that includes the series
name and then the regular book name.
And if we go out to one that's not part
of a series, we can see the display name
is just the book name, and
the path is book and the book name.
And these are slugifies, and
now, we can link to these.
So let's update our output
then to actually do that.
So instead of just dumping this,
we're going to instead,
we'll create a list and let's tag
that will say books by author name.
And inside of this,
we'll do a books.map and
for each book,
we're going to output some JSX.
Okay, so we're gonna do a list item
that'll have a key of book that ID.
That's a guaranteed unique string in
Gatsby so we can trust it to work.
And I wanna bring in the link that's
not coming in from Gatsby is it?
All right, so let me import link.
We've already got it.
Import link from Gatsby and then we're
going to link to the book.path and
we're gonna show the book.displayname.
All right and finally,
we'll just add a link at the bottom
to head back to the homepage, or
sorry, to head to an author's page.
Which, this doesn't exist yet,
we'll build this next.
But, rather than having to come back
in here and remembering to do it,
let's just set it up now.
So do an arrow pointing left,
this is an HTML entity, and
then we'll go back to all authors.
And if I save that, look at it go,
we got ourselves a page.
So if I come in here go to N.K. Jemisin
here's a list of all those books and
if I click to it, we can see that
it's taking us to the right place.
But we haven't built those pages yet.
So let's build out this author's page.
And to do that, we're going to
just do a plain old page, right?
And this is what's nice about this is, we
did all this work to create custom data.
But now we can just build pages the way
that we would normally build them,
it's really nice.
So we're going to import everything
as react from react, and
then we'll get out graphql and
we're going to need the link as well.
We that helping is not
helping is it From Gatsby,
and we're going to export a const of
query, that's gonna be a tagged graphql,
Query, and
this one doesn't need any variables.
So we could actually do
this as a static query.
But I don't know why I didn't I
think I was just copy pasting thing.
So we'll do it this way all author and
inside of our author,
we're going to get the nodes and
we want their name and their slug.
So then we can export our component,
which will be the default
function called authors page.
And that's gonna get some data, And
let's pull out those authors there'll
be data.allAuthor.nodes.
We should make this simpler,
why overcomplicate this?
Let's cut out cognitive loops or
cognitive overhead.
So, instead,
we're going to use static query.
And instead of having to
pass things around in props,
why don't we just get our data,
right out of use static query, right?
When you don't need to use the query,
this makes more sense to me.
It's like, hi, I want to use this query,
here's the data that I want,
give it to me.
And then we get our everything
else stays the same.
So functionally what we
just did is identical but
in terms of the the cognitive overhead
of somebody reading this code,
if they're not familiar with Gatsby,
this doesn't require you to know that
the query will get turned into data.
So unless you're using again,
unless you're working with variables,
it's usually easier to just
do the the simple thing.
So let's start by setting up a graphQL
fragment because we don't have a JSX
fragment instead, so that we don't end
up with junky markup that we don't need.
So we'll do a listing of authors and
then we'll do an unordered list and
for each author We're
going to return some stuff
missing closing parentheses again,
there we go.
This is going to be a list item,
it's gonna have a key of author.slug,
that's a unique value that we can trust.
Then we can link to and
we're going to make this author.slug,
And we'll put in the author's name,
author.name.
All right, I think we've done it.
What am I missing here?
I'm missing a closing curly brace.
Let's save it, let's look at it.
All right,
we now have our authors pulling in and
we have a working website
based on our custom data.
So that's great but we did throw ourselves
a little bit of a curveball here
because now when we look at our books,
the books have different URL structure.
So we can't just throw in
like the book file thing.
We're going to need to build
these book links manually.
These pages are gonna have
to get built manually.
So let's do that.
>> So, calculating the slug locally
each time can become repetitive is there
a way to add that slug as a property
in the graphQL tree using this page
generation technique by using
the naming trip, not Create Page hook?
>> 100%, yeah, we could have
added another resolver in here.
And so for example, the way we did
a bi-link we could do a slug and
just slugify the series and
slugify the book name.
Why I didn't do that?
Great question.
I don't know why I didn't do that.
It honestly is probably a better move
because then we wouldn't have to calculate
it in multiple places.
So yeah, if I was gonna refactor this,
that'd be a great place to refactor
this code would be to just add a slug
here, and then set that as a string and
run slugify in this file instead
of having to do it everywhere.
But, in the interest of not throwing
myself too many curveballs because we got
a lot to cover and
I don't wanna run out of time.
I'm going to not do that.
So bear with me as we do some,
a little bit of copy pasting
around to make this work.